With the advent of massive rifts in reality evidence of a simultaneously prehistoric and hyper advanced civilization has been deposited all over the surface and deep underground by these portal storms.

The Roehkeis, or Moeki as they called themselves, are depicted as a race in turmoil in the art left behind. A great cataclysm effected them and they moved deep underground, failing to adapt or in fear of something biological they put their spirits into automatons of stone and magic, trapping their very souls in cages made of enchanted metal. The player mainly interacts with artifacts of this ancient fallen civilization and through this learns their magic and technology. Its less witchcraft and more following the steps of a science they don't quite understand yet.

Many things can be found through dousing as Moeki artifacts emit a faint psychic resonance that can be picked up by those sensitive to it, some of the native matter of their world arrived on the meterorite that killed the dinosaurs, a shard of their planet that ripped clean through to our dimension during their own downfall. Perhaps because of their tampering with souls or maybe from their alien powersources melting down.

This low level psychic radiation has been picked up by pagans and paranormal researchers for centuries subltly shaping parts of fringe culture and spirituality. Thus many of symbols and rituals reflect popular and not so popular parts of magic culture in media we know, while some of it is entirely alien.

In recent times, or perhaps feeding off the thanergy of the apocalypse, several deities from rival pantheons have made themselves known more strongly. A pantheon of balance populated by nature aligned primal spirits and a so-called chaos pantheon composed of more conceptually "human" goddesses who are much more fickle in thier influence. In between these two forces are various parasitic deities that have trickled through on their backs, small gods who have lached onto or become trapped in objects scattered across the planet attempting to feed of the surviving populace.

Most of the progress throughout the various parts of this mod are accessed through finding meteorites and digging up artifacts until you have enough to piece together a soul or datastore which can then be investigated to learn more of their "science". Despite the existance of something godlike, I don't feel that science and spirituality must be at odds, as such they are both intertwined in this mod.